---
title: CprE 308 Shell Design
date: 2020-09-02 8:00:00 +/-1111
author: Jake Vaughn
categories: [Projects, Iowa State University]
tags: [project, ISU, portfolio]
---

## Overview:

During CprE 308 we were tasked with creating our own version of a shell for interacting with a linux operating system. This project was creative and enjoyable for me. I ended up calling my shell shelly and have it hosted at on my [github](https://github.com/jake-vaughn/CPRE-381-projects).

## My Role

As this wasn't a team project I was responsible for the entire development of this shell. I started by creating a basic input output system that allowed a user to enter commands. There were three main types of commands my shell needed to be able to handle. First I needed to be able to handle standard commands with no arguments (`ls`), commands with arguments (`ls -la`), and commands that are being run in the background, (`ping &`).

## Lessons Learned

Most of this project was review for me as I had written a fair amount of code in C before attempting this. The portion of my shell that I learned the most from was the backgrounding and process management code. Before taking this class I hadn't ever needed to write multithreaded applications. Through this project and the other major assignments in this class I was forced to confront these unknowns and become at least a little bit familiar with the different ways you're able to make C programs more efficient by spinning off large work loads into separate threads.

## Resources Used

I used so many stackoverflow posts and a lot of help from the TA. On top of informal help, I also spent a fair amount of time reading the standards for ["MIPS assembly language"](https://www.cs.csub.edu/~eddie/cmps2240/doc/britton-mips-text.pdf) to ensure that my instructions were being parsed correctly
